# NextAIRE

NextAIRE is focused on boosting the interoperability, expanding expertise and providing a more balanced geographical and cross[1]sectoral circulation of European R&I talents in the field of air quality monitoring, actively involving environmental scientists, experts in hardware and Internet of Things (IoT) and machine learning engineers. The project is centred around a cross-sectoral and cross-country approach, with a strong focus on Widening countries. The training methodology, including 40 planned secondments and numerous collaboration activities, such as buddy systems, workshops, hackathons and ongoing assessment, is expected to drive sensor development and environment-related public health findings. The project is made up of 16 partners forming a highly interdisciplinary consortium with numerous SME-sized hardware producers. From a scientific perspective, air quality monitoring through low-cost sensorics and artificial intelligence is at the project’s core. However, NextAIRE will use these topics to provide R&I talents hands-on experiences to increase their research, entrepreneurial and other transferable skills, strengthening the R&I human capital base and improving the excellence of the research carried out in Widening countries and beyond. NextAIRE will also generate outcomes that will positively impact the employability and sustainable career prospects for European R&I talents in the field of air quality monitoring, in both the academic and non-academic sectors alike. Results such as the NextAIRE Competency framework, mathematical and AI models and an e-learning platform featuring training materials on topics such as AI, data science and air pollution research, will help to achieve this goal.
